From Hanselman it's dot com.
It's Hansel minutes. Our weekly
discussion with web developer and
technologists, Scott Hanselman. This is
Lawrence Ryan announcing show number two
22. Recorded live Thursday, July 15th, 2010.
Support for Hanselman it's. This
provided by Tellerik. Our AB
controls the most comprehensive suite
of components for windows forms
and asp.net web applications. online@wwwdottelerik.com.
In this episode, Scott talks
with stack overflow creative director,
Jen Yom. Hi, this is
Scott Hanselman and this is
another episode of Hansel minutes.
Today. We're chatting with the
creative director of stack overflow,
Jen young, also someone who
is crushing me currently in
words with friends online Scrabble
game. Hey, thanks for coming
on the show. Thank you
for having me Scott. So
you're a designer and you,
you, you self identify currently
as a designer? Yes, I,
I think I've always been
designer, but for a while
I worked as a developer
speak your language somewhat. How
did you start? Right? Did
you start as a developer?
No. Well, since I was
in high school, I was
always interested in design and
the technical side, I got
a, well, this goes back
a little bit further while
I was in high school.
My parents bought me my
first computer. It was a,
I think it was a
four 86 33 megahertz for
makes Ram. That was a
big deal back then. So
I always did graphic work
on that. And at the
same time I was seeing
trust in games and you
know, a lot of on
BVS. And so I really
liked to tinker with computers.
I remember I had a
stack of disks, you know,
you had, you had to
have different like memory booters
for different games back then
I was like to think
are so. And what I
actually went to college for
computer engineering, labor nod. It
was a choice of school
of design where computer engineering
and my Chinese parents wanting
me to have a real
job one day. So Wait
a second. So you wanted
to go to school, like
for design or art design,
what's your, Yeah, I took
architecture and drafting and art
for four years. So I
was really into that. And
of course I'll just computer
skills I had, I've taught
myself and my parents said,
no, no school design because
they didn't want me to
be a starving artist. So
that kind of just kicked
in and I played her
Reddit. Wow. Is that a,
is that a Chinese thing
or is that a, your
parents thing? I think overall
it was a Chinese thing.
Of course I'm just being
stereotypical here. I think it's
either doctors or, Well, you
get to be stereotypical because
you, 50% of all the
Chinese people on. Yeah. You
can do that. I represent
all the Scottish people. Totally
pick. I can pick on
them like, you know, they
suck and everything. So I
can say that and I
just got it right. I
think it was a really
good experience regardless. I kind
of wish I picked computer
science at the computer and
in engineering, which was mostly
electrical engineering courses. And on
courses of computer science, I
took a sense lead data
structure, you know, C plus
plus it was just a
really good experience, I think
because, you know, school engineering
and guards, how to be
analytical, you have to working
in a team where I
think if I had chosen
to our school, I honestly
don't know how that would
affect me today. Cause I,
I think I had a
pretty good analytical skill as
well. Okay. And would you
were just like kind of
doing art on the side
here or what? Yeah, pretty
much. You know, I was
drew a sketch and I
used to, I think my
first of graphic program was
Photoshop 2.0, that was way
back. That was before layers.
You know, when you, if
you want it to make
it simple job shadow, you
said you had to do
two images. You know, one,
for example, you have a
Trump shadow text, you have
to have one image just
with your texts. And now
there's layer either image with
offset, text blurred, and then
you have to calculate those
two, you know, the difference
between those two. So you
get these drop shadow effect
and you have to piece
that back onto original text.
So it was a pain.
So that's why I kept
on telling them designers the
space, you know, it's like
cheating. You can just do
all these all sound effects
with one layer in Tupelo
shop today. There's always been
that strange impedance mismatch between
the Photoshop comp, you know,
the Photoshop composite and then
the, and now I have
to turn it into the
web. You know, I was
always frustrated with designers because
they would come up with
this ridiculous design. And I
would just say that doesn't
look like a webpage. It
was like a tee shirt.
Yeah. There are definitely designers
who produce stuff like that.
And they'll send it into
that. Just regarding to your
question. I would say designer,
I would say, because I
started, I was lucky. I
got my first design related
shop back in 1995. Of
course I wouldn't really call
it what designed back then,
because you can't really design
anything for, for mosaic for
elsewhere. Right? You remember from
mosaic? I remember it because
you know, it was just
a standard gray background with
a Roman font because back
then I remember you couldn't
even put an image tech
tables. So because back then
you had to rely on
tables out to buy out
your page. Luckily I think
Netscape came out shortly after
that. So Netscape was pretty
awesome back then. So you've
been designing That long. You
were actually designing with browsers
that weren't able to do
anything like what you wanted
them to do. Yeah. Funny
story. Because my first website,
it was off my college
accounts, Google account. Of course
it was a really typical
yard. I was like, then
you're off at www, whatever.edu/user/this
really long URL. And I
remember I made my first
web page. It was really
awesome. And at least I
thought it was, and I
post the link. I use
that because I was really
newsgroups were really big back
then. And then I got
these complaints that was the
first cross browser complaint I
ever got because this lady
was using links. She lived
that. She was saying, Oh,
I see, is image, image,
image, tags. You know, I
have no idea what they
are. And I was like,
what is the link? And
I later I found out
was the text is browser.
So I've had to put
all texts in there. So
those people can see, It's
lucky that you didn't drop
out of design at that
point. Yeah. My first job,
you know, of course back
then, it was really easy
to learn HTML because the
first draft was, I think
there were less than 20
texts each to nail tags
and there was no CSS.
My first job was with,
at universities agriculture department. And
my, my first task was
convert 2007 work WordPerfect documents
into HTML by hand, because
back then there weren't any,
which used to be what
you get editor or some
kind of, well, there was
one, there was a Unix
program to hotdog where you
can automatically parse HTML poorly.
So I think that was
kind of like a boot
camp on hand coding age
to now Doesn't that sound
like kind of a, a
task that you would automate?
I mean, I guess like,
I guess as a, actually
this is what I want
to just, this is what
I want to kind of
discover and like dig into
is the mind of the
code versus the mind of
the designer. And because you
were a coder and a
designer, you're kind of like
my spy on the inside,
you know, you can like
sneak over and hang out
with like the hipster. Cool.
You know, well-dressed designer people
and then report back to
the developers. But how many,
how many documents did you
have that you had to
convert? You didn't do those
manually. Did you? I actually
did at least 1000 and
later on, I tried, you
know, that program at mission
hotdog and it wasn't that
good. That's I mean, what
does 80% of the job
for me, but that's, you
have to go back clean
up song. Yeah. Like anything
that you have, like from
a program or mindset or
anything you can do twice
you shouldn't, you can automate.
Right. So like maybe even
if the tools didn't exist,
I don't think that I,
I guess I would say
if you couldn't automate it,
I wouldn't even do it.
That's just the idea of
doing it manually is Right.
It's like then I, I
wouldn't call myself a programmer.
And because that was 1995
when I was first introduced
to the web. But as
soon after that, I started
picking up more developer skills
because, you know, simple HTML,
static website just didn't cut
it anymore. And especially my
freelance, you know, my clients
keep on asking more and
more stuff, you know, they
want the NAMIC contents, you
know, that's why I learned
as the classic ASP back
then. So, you know, I
used to set up these
access database where a SQL
server and using class, the
ASP, which I really liked
and I believe or not,
that was pretty simple. Of
course, back then, I believe
SB only has five intrinsic
objects, right. With request response
server session. I don't know
if you'd count dictionary as
a, Are you trying to
prove your tele-health developer chops
with the request response server
cache application? I don't remember
what they were, something like
that. Right. I'm trying to
select some muscle here. In
fact, yeah. Later on, I
just moved to asp.net. I
actually had, I was actually
certified in asp.net VB, which
it is funny after that
I just stopped using.net. I
actually, I stopped programming altogether
because I just couldn't keep
up with these new versions
without an ad coming out
every year. So, But don't,
you have to keep up
on design though. I mean,
you were saying that you
quit programming because you didn't
like keeping up with all
the speed of stuff, but
isn't there always stuff going
on in design. I mean,
design do designers, like It's
a little bit different. I
w I would say, well,
what design is constantly evolving
because you know what designs,
I don't like the traditional
print design, what the science
is still technology based, right?
There are new HTML specs
coming out and new suspects
and there's new ways of
using JavaScript or jQuery to
do things. So that aspect
is I have to keep
up with. And, but that's
really easy though, because HTML
and CSS are just simple
markup language and pounds of
jQuery libraries. So that part
is not hard, but the
other aspect about design, I
think it's a lot more
time, for example, you know,
the traditional design principles, associates,
typography layout, you know, color
theories, those have long established.
And on that part, it
doesn't does not change that
much. So to me, it's
a little bit easier. And
another reason I quit programming
is not because I hated
it. I really, really enjoy
the aspect, but I was
consider myself as a coder
instead of a programmer. You
know what I mean? And
that's, that's the thing I
want to talk about. Definitely.
Yeah, because there's, I mean,
as I said, the only
reason I pick up prolonging
skill is to aid my
design. I want it to
be this awesome for farmer.
That's why I pick up
programming. It just clients demand
a lot more. And I
was freelancing on my own,
the late nineties, and that's
why I learnt sequel database
store procedures. And, and I
just found that I was
not very good at it.
You know, I'm sure there
were better ways to rise
to the close and the
crap I was coming up
with. So I just thought,
you know what, it's not
fair for a project and
five code because I know
I'm not the best program
out there. I'd rather have
a really awesome program through
that part. And I just
do the part I like,
and that is, which is
the front end. I really,
really like front end. Cause
to me, it's a lot
more gratifying because when you
push a design out there
where you code the front
end and people will see
that right away. Whereas if
I'm just spreading these lines
of ASP coding, backhand, nobody
will see it. She liked
to be out front and
to have people really know
that I made that. Well,
it's not really for, you
know, the, the, the note
is this more like, I,
like, I like to design
that layer where they're directly
interacts with users. I like
to hear user's feedback, you
know, whereas, you know, the
users can't relate to O'Shea
the backend code, unless, you
know, the is really slow
or something. One of the
things that I want to
understand is the difference between
the designer mind and the
developer mind. And this is
kind of why I wanted
to have you on, because
I think you understand both,
right. I mean, it's just,
it's, it's like, there's different
kinds. I mean, I'm trying
to say there's, it's so
fundamental. Like you're either a
designer or you're not, there's
not like you're kind of
half a designer or you're
okay with design. You know
what I mean? Everyone knows
what's pretty and everyone has
a sense of aesthetic, but
I mean, ultimately it seems
to me like the difference
between a designer and a
developer is a developer starts
with like going and searching
the web for free CSS
templates. And a designer starts
in Photoshop. That's like how
I describe it, but I
want to understand from you,
like what the difference between
the processes between the two
kinds of people. I think
what you've described as pretty
typical. Cause I remember last
year I was reading John
Galloway's laws where he, I
think the title was that
designer developer workflow crisis actually
asked this side up here.
So he had this flow
chart on this blog. And
I think this is really
typical flow of typical corporate
or government environment, which I
think is really flawed. And
just like what you described,
you said it starts with
designer, creates a page mock
up in Photoshop or illustrator
and the designs, that's the
sign, our hands, you know,
the programmer, this PSD file.
And they go back and
forth. They don't agree on
design. And then they just
the waste of time. I
think, I think it's very
important that the team has
to I'll start at the
same point. I think it's
typical over a flow would
be, you know, when you
have an app web app
or a website to deal
an app, user requirements and
developers would just come up
with what functions we should
have on there. And once
they make, give the designer
a wireframe and say, Hey,
go, here's all this stuff.
You need to knock it
out just to make it
pretty. And I think that
you really need to get
the designer involved first because
it's more than just visual.
Otherwise you're just hiring a
pixel pusher. Are you saying
that the designer is also
the UX designer or in
big organizations? It seems like
the one who makes it
pretty as different from the
one who organizes the experience
is different from the one
who designs the information architecture
or is that just enterprise
BS language? I think that
just, it's a little bit
of that because to me
it good web designer, although
the term, I think it's
really convoluted, as you say,
there's so many specializations it
good. What these on are,
should be able to do
all that. There's just absolutely
no reason not to, because
it is what designer is.
Not just somebody who makes
your graphics pretty, right. Otherwise
they're just really hiring this
graphic monkey. It it's because
sweat design is really a
visual solution and interactions solution.
So if you have a
designer, you know, first meeting,
you know, work alongside with
the programmers, you know, the
are kind of having input.
What's the best way to
design, for example, a which
is where does the page
flow? And then the designer
can lock up these wire
frames. And that's why wireframes
is important because this is
their bone and it has
no visual. So nobody kind
of has a preference that
I wouldn't like this color.
I don't like this around
the corner. So, you know,
I think that typically incorporation
is always like a form
follows function. Right. As long
as it works first, and
then we'll worry about making
it pretty or a flow.
Yeah. That's exactly right, exactly.
Right. I design it in
black and white and then
I'll let somebody else like
put a code on it
later and make it pretty
Right. See the OSI has
always, you know, author of,
and it really should get
at these honoree and bluff
in front of the beginning
because their product, isn't just
how it works. It's how
it looks, how it feels.
Right. Because you can have
this awesome web app. Yeah.
It's so talented programmers. But
if you're in a result,
it's not polished that really
damages your branding, right? Because
when a user comes to
your site, before he even
starts using the site, if
he sees this is not
polished, this is so amateurish,
it really affects your, your,
your size reputation. How do
I know if a designer
is good, other than fat,
I look at their stuff
and say, that's pretty to
me because I can only
look at the end result,
right? Like with a coder,
I can review their code.
I can potentially, I could
find statistics and analysis and
do static analysis on their
code. I could, you know,
speak to people about how
they, how they worked on
a team and how productive
they were with various measures.
How do I look at
a designer and find out
whether or not they have
a wrongheaded design process, right.
Considering that I'm hiring someone
to do something that I
don't know anything about. Right.
That's a question I actually
interview a lot of designers
in the past. You know,
the first question I always
ask, even on the, during
the phone spraining was what
is your blog URL? And
if they just say, I
don't have a blog and
then I would ask, so
what design blogs do you
read? And if they say
I don't read anything, I
pretty much just end the
call right there. Because I,
I strongly believe in, you
know, on our shoot blog
where it would be actively
reading design blogs out there
because this really shows attitude.
You know, they want to
further, better themselves. And it
is a pleasure to have
a blog because a lot
of times that designers can
put these, you know, work
they've done and they may
be good, but you don't
know what part of that
project they worked on. You
know? And you don't know
if they really did it,
but you have to have
a blog where they can
actually write their thoughts. So
you get to know the
person a lot better, just
looking at some pretty pictures.
I think it would be
the same way you interview
a programmer to write. Cause
I would, you know, you
don't just say, show me
what you did. In fact,
I think it would be
harder for programmers to show
their portfolio and because the
code is out behind on
a web server. So I
will go from there. Of
course, as far as looking
at their work, I think
that just really a matter
of taste. And it's normally,
it's not that hard to
tell if it's design is
good, were bad. This is
the part of the show
where I mock you while
actually Tellerik mock says your
applications, that you're testing dependent
on external systems over which
you have no control. Maybe
you're being slowed down by
those systems, their lack of
availability, responsiveness. You want to
do TDD, right? Our friends
at Tellerik help you solve
some of those problems with
their newest mocking tool. Just
Mark. It'll let you do
fast, simple controlled unit tests,
independent of external resources like
databases, web services, proprietary code,
unlike some marketing tools, just
mock works with non-virtual methods,
seal classes, static methods, giving
you complete control of your
code. You can get more
details. You can download just
mock at telerik.com/just mock. And
don't forget to thank Tellerik
for supporting Hanselman it's on
their Facebook fan page, facebook.com/tellerik.
Thanks a lot. One of
the, this is, well, this
is why I have people
on the show so I
can ask inappropriate questions. But
sometimes when I have a
designer working with me at
a company full time, I
think to myself, what is
this person going to be
doing for 40 hours a
week? And I think that
the higher up in the
company, you go, depending on
whether or not they appreciate
design that question of, we
don't need a designer full
time because he's, they're just
going to do a comp
and they're going to write
something in Photoshop, and then
they're going to hang out
for like six months. So,
I mean, you know, I'm
being honest with you, right?
I can remember I would
program it. Right. So I
know I can keep a
program or busy 40 hours
a week 50. Yeah. Well,
let me ask you where
you work at Microsoft. Do
you, I mean, what does
your designer actually do? Are
you saying this? I mean,
we have, we have a
couple of designers. Like they
have actually several designers on
MSDN that do stuff and
they do lots of different
websites, but I mean, there's
like when we're in the
middle of the design process,
there's like a flurry of
inf of comps and new
new stuff going on. And
then there's kind of quiet
for a little while and
then there's a flurry again.
And that's just, again, I'm
not involved in the design
process as much for the
way that the, you know,
I don't chop up the
graphics. I'm farther downstream. So
I'm just speaking more generically.
I'm not speaking about Microsoft
in general, but Well, I
think what you described is
fairly typical. I see, I
already see a problem there.
You shouldn't be the one
that's chunking that does not
have to HTML. I think
that's designer stuff. What, why
designers shop? That's why they
call it web designers, not
just a graphic designer right
there. The reason I say
that is I'm. I think
I am you a blog
post? I wrote about my
family web designer shoot code,
and I have a strong
opinion on this. And I
think any web designer who's
worth their checks should be
able to write HTML, not
just good HTML, proper semantic,
HTML, and CSS, Almost like,
like final. Would you go
to so far as to
say that they're creating HTML
that is shipping? Yes. That's
what I do. Of course,
with stack overflow, some of
the projects I've worked on,
they already had the HTML
maze. So I just put
the CSS scan over that.
But typically what I do,
I'll explain the design process.
You find when it was
first game I project, the
first thing I need to
do is I had to
identify who I'm making a
website for. Of course, you
know, this, this is not
for the person who pays
me a check where my
boss even it's really for
the people who will be
using the website, right? Cause
that's ultimately your user. And
then, you know, of course
we, I learned a design
go, what is this website
trying to do as a
Sally product? Whereas it just
promoting somebody, you know, or
it's a web app, then,
you know, I would choose
my design styles differently. For
example, web apps repetitive use,
I do not make a
graphic intensive because it's for
web apps, the visuals have
really high emissions diminishing return.
You want to keep it
really simple. So user can
focus on what they're doing
and, and ultimately, you know,
and dad is come up
with what kind of mood
we want set up with
this design because ultimately it's
all about setting up that
mood. That's what I think
that's what separates good designs
to excellent designs. You know,
that's always the secret designs
is to simply trick invoking
that emotional response. That's all
there is to it. Everything
in between just a means
to an end. That's really,
that's cool though. I like
that. I mean that, like
it breaks it down, you
know? I mean the Dakota's
job is to get it
done, right? I mean, I
can design, evokes and move.
Right. I can talk about
typography and layout, you know,
the white space, all of
that. But ultimately your goal
is simply trick aren't mood.
I mean, I think that's
true with all designs or
even industrial designs, right? You
want something that just feels
good. I mean, maybe that's
not always the mood that
you want to set it
may, or you find sometimes
you want to make a
website and make people feel
sad so that they can
donate money, you know, but
that's still, that's all you're
aiming for. So it took
me a lot to realize
that and because why, if
I can deny these, I,
I think I was more
of a decorator because there
were all these cool trends,
you know, the nineties IDC
night, the 40, 45 degree
lines, tiny little font, you
know, that was a trend
back then. So I, I
did a lot of crappy
websites, but that style, because
it took me a while.
What is, what does w
what makes a good design,
you know, is it's all
there is to it. You
know, it really triggers this
emotional response. If it's on
a web app, you want
maybe something really clean really
fast, and because you don't
want something slow or first,
then we'll take a product
Obama's website. I thought it
was really well done regardless
of your political affiliation. I
think, because back then I
was working for the government.
I worked at FCC and
I was familiar with how
the government websites look and
that side just blew me
away. I thought it was
really well done. And of
course, on top of all
this social media stuff, he
did too. So how many
government websites did you do?
Because that, that seems like
death to a designer like,
wow, I'm a designer, I'm
creative. I'm awesome. And I'm
going to go work for
the government. There's a funny
story. I first did a
garment. I did some consulting
for the North Carolina state government.
I can late nineties. And
then I went back in
2004, I believe just because
I'm a really cool people
there. The reason I wanted
to work in the garment
is because first of all,
I feel a garment is
like underdog. Len comes through
web standards, you know, how
they lag years behind industries.
So all my friends kind
of made fun of me
cause they were working on
these clammers, you know, clients,
freelance projects here was, you
know, government building cube and
how their website. So maybe
it was surprising. I just
believe I couldn't make it
better. And I did a
lot of them. So I
was kind of proud of
it. So the reason the
last one I did was
if you go to the
fcc.gov, of course that's still,
the old site is not
up yet. I think that's
how it was done in
2001. It has not been
changed yet, of course, that
I was not responsible for
that. But if you look
at their new site, it's
called reboot that fcc.gov, you
know, that's a long, the
size I work on for
FCC and with the new
administration. And they pull out
the focus on the web
too. And there's the new
media teams for web savvy.
They know how they, you
know, get on Twitter to
gain followers and Facebook now.
Yeah, I'm looking at, I
went to, it's a it's
fcc.gov and this is a
very dry, boring kind of
late nineties style, very typical
looking government website. And then
on the upper corner, there
is a page curl with
a, it says a big
thing that says reboot.fcc.gov. And
then it's just very kind
of light fresh while still
being government in the sense
of it looks official, but
it's just not boring, kind
of big navigation thing. And
it's a much, it looks
like a, it looks like
a totally reasonable website that
could exist in 2010. Right?
And that's still not the
final ftc.gov and know that
they are in the process
of revamping the FCC, but
it's a huge passcode, hundreds,
thousands of static, HTML documents
and word documents. So it
may take a while to
convert all of them. So
I believe the new site
will be very good to
you. Well, it's interesting because
I'm looking at this website
and they've got like, it's
like, I see like FCC
connect and they've got like
Twitter and MySpace and I'm
like, really, the FCC is
on Twitter. They're why do
I care? And I click
on it and they've got
350,000 followers. Yes, exactly. I
think we were competing with
the justice department and they
had, That's insane. That's insane.
Yes. It tells me there's
some really good people working
at the SPC right now.
There will be huge fans.
Yeah. Well, none of, they've
got a, they've got a,
a discussion area here where
like a question and they
have a little little poll
and it says, how can
the FCC improve use of
online tutorials? So I clicked
on that, thinking that it's
going to be some lame,
you know, radio button poll,
they're using user voice. And
they actually did the CRA
the graphics on user voice
and updated the site. So
it doesn't look like a
voice, Right. Alyssa total branding
package. If you go to
the, our YouTube page or
Facebook is all, you know,
as all look consistent. Oh,
wow. Yeah. So I just
clicked on YouTube and they've
got the, the colors and
everything. All right. Yeah. So
did you work on, so
you on the whole visual
style for, for all of
this stuff, I worked with
other designer who worked on
the Obama campaign, whether she
was really good, we collaborated
a lot on these, of
course, you know, there are,
there's a big team of
developers as well. It was
definitely a team effort. Wow.
That's cool. I wonder, I
wonder if there were any
web designers before on in
the government, Typically the garment
is, you know, most of
their IP work are done
by contractors. So it really,
it depends on if the
contractors are good or not.
And that also has a
lot to do with the
focus, whether it's the management
on top, want to do
anything about a website? Yeah,
I am. I did this
video that I put up.
I've, I've actually, I've done
this talk a couple of
times where I talk about
social networking for developers and
it's an hour long talk
and I, I put it
up on channel nine yesterday,
but the general postulate, the
general theory, like, you know,
welcome to my talk. Every
developer needs to be blogging.
And Yeah. See, I think,
you know, as I said,
I feel the same way
about these NRS as well,
but I think the biggest
excuse I've heard when they
post an Allen flog is
I don't have time. Right.
I don't know if you've
heard of that. Oh yeah.
That's the number one, excuse
is I'm doing real work.
I'm not going to pull
up. I always tell people,
if you just say you,
you blog, you spend two
hours on blogging a week.
I think that's reasonable. Right.
And that, that would be,
you know, that adds up
to eight day. You no
time, just, you know, Mazda,
it's like you spend one
day, that's still better than
nothing. And it's not like
you have to blog every
single day. You know, you
can just, because I remember
when I first started blogging,
I asked Jeff Atwood, as
it applies, can you get
me? And all he said
was a blog at a
pace you kind of, you
can live with, right. It
can be once a week
or once a month. It
doesn't even matter. As long
as you keep that pace
and it will become easier
and easier to, and eventually
it just feels natural to
arise yourself. So it's not
really that much of an
effort. And I think the
second excuse is like, nobody
will read my blog. You
know, I'm not, I'm not
internet famous, nobody will read
it. So I just think
that's a wrong mentality to
have, you should write for
yourself, you know, to become
a better writer over time.
Right. Is it about bad
communication or is it about
having an online portfolio? Both.
I believe. I mean, your
portfolio, you can, if you
did it project that you
can blog about it, you
can say what, what my
design process was. A lot
of times you can, I
guess, do a matte of
blogging as much as cost
that you blog about different
aspects of the design. And
then you can, you'll get
comments from other designers, you
know, you would, you know,
exchange thoughts or debates, whatever.
And there's the learning process
too. I've learned a lot
from the comments on my
blog. I've been visiting your
blog and poking around. And
there's a couple of things
that I've noticed remembering that
I'm coming at this from
a developer perspective. And, and
it's funny because it's, it's,
it's a nice blog and
you're a good writer and
it's very pretty, but like,
I think I was bugging
you about this earlier. It's
like the first thing I
see when I show up
at your blog is a
giant photograph at the top.
Right. And you're telling me
that was great. It's huge
because it's like, and I'm
looking at this and I'm
like, you know, where's the
words, man. I gotta scroll
down to see the words.
And, and then I, I
was looking at your announcement
on the blog where you
say, I'm going to go
work for stack overflow and
you have this picture at
the top. And it's this
picture of like some fruit
and it's overlooking a, in
New York Harbor. And I'm like,
Oh, this is lovely. I
wonder, I wonder where he
got this stock photography. And
then I'm looking in the
comments here. And not only
did you take that picture
at Joel Spolsky's office, but
this is the part that
blows me away. And this
is the real difference between
a developer, a developer and
a designer, because someone's like,
yeah. Okay, great picture. What
kind of post-processing did you
do? I'm like post post-processing
and like, this is a
discussion between two designers and
he's like, Oh yeah, you
know, I just, this is
you talking, Oh, I just
overlaid some few colored layers
over the original little tan,
little blue, but the blending
mode overlaid you. And I
did some curve adjustment on
different channels and I'm like,
wow, that's like an afternoon
for me. And you probably
bang that out in like
two minutes. Yeah. Well, I
can, I can see why
you think the photos too
big. But as I said,
well, first of all, know
the business mail homepage really
most, according to my Google
analytics, most people actually do
go to individual articles. So
homepage isn't that visited much,
but the point is that
big photos to set a
mood, right? Because actually it
took me awhile to what
to put on my homepage.
A lot of designers put
on their big, close up
of their face or whatever,
and I'm not very photogenic.
And the, and the, at
that point did not want
to use my photo there.
And I just felt it
would be a little bit
tacky. So I just want
it photo there and make
people look at it for
10 seconds and say, what
the hell is this? You
know, it's creating that mood.
That kind of like mysterious.
That's why, if you go
to my blog,  dot
org, you will just see
this giant robot. I fold
the shopping and not just
parents based museum looks like
a real one. That's all
the point of it. It
just, you know, treat people
a little bit, as far
as the fall Creek one,
I could just use the
standard full time I took,
but I really wanted to
keep that soft and it
should look, you know, it's
so it's not really so
out there. And that's part
of the set Hampton mood.
And that's what I was
talking about. The part that's
amazing is that you knew
you knew what the motions
were that you had to
do in the tool in
order to evoke that mood.
And that's the part that
I would just I'd love
to learn, but I realized
that I don't know if
it can be, I mean,
you can, I can learn
to be a fake designer.
I listened to that gave
like a sense, most of
your listeners are programmers and
I have a list of
suggestions, I think. Yeah, that
would be great. I mean,
you don't have to try
to be like a designer.
I think what's more important
is I think you should
have a good taste. I
mean, I think that party
can develop over time. I
mean, I already, you know,
the stereotype is whole farmers
have no taste and then
they make these ugly websites.
And I think some of
them are like that, but
most programmers have Delta are
not like that. For example,
the farmers I'm working with
stack overflow. Yeah. You know,
there are maybe two or
three men groups, you know,
they work on different projects.
So I've been involved in
all of these and they
really surprised me to have
really good taste. You know,
they may not be able
to create these graphics, but,
but they have good tastes
that they can offer me
really good suggestions. And, and
I, I will give you
a list of blogs and
maybe you can put in
the podcast websites you should
visit. And I think it's
really well, first of all,
the easiest thing is just
go to Wikipedia, PDA, lookout,
typography. I think that's a
big thing. And that had
a lot of programmers France.
They w why, why is
it what's the difference between
Helvetica and area? Why does
it even matter? It's just,
these are just texts, you
know, it's not like I
can't even tell they ended
up cause typography. It doesn't
matter in that there's kerning
the spacing and some fonts
are just better than others,
you know, and see if
this is a type of
thing. I don't think you
have to consciously notice because
honestly, sometimes depending on the
capital letters, I can't tell
if they're Helvetica or areas,
especially capital E you know,
but I think, you know,
just read the Wiki or
the Wikipedia look up topography,
and you will see Townsel
links and you will know
why it's actually, it doesn't
matter. And the more you
read about it, the more
you kind of appreciate what
designers do, Would you recommend
to the listeners that they
should have several design blogs
in their, in their reader
list? I think so ecology,
because it lists apart accom,
which is Londa, better design
blogs. It's published, like I
believe two articles per month
or two weeks. Every two
weeks. Yeah. And there are
other ones I'll send you
a list so you can
log and, and, and definitely
do not think, you know,
form follows function where a
function follows form. And while
my favorite design closes by
Frank Lloyd Wright, he I'm just
paraphrasing here. He said form
for all the function that
is very misunderstood. Format function
should be one. Sean joined
a spiritual union. You know,
it's really one thing, right.
For example, I hate to
sound a Apple fan polite,
but I think I talked
to you about Apple stuff
on Twitter before they, if
you look at their stuff,
it doesn't matter if you
like your stuff or not.
They really focused on everything.
It's not just how it
looks. And it's also how
it works, right. Everything. And
even the marketing, this is
one consistent package. That's why
they're able to, you know,
impress their gender politics. And
I think that's pretty important.
Yeah. The fact that it's
a complete cohesive, thoughtful unit.
And even though, you know,
that there's a marketing department
as a design department, as
a coding department, that doesn't
come out. I think at
Microsoft, we have, we definitely
see the, the, the, the
distances, the white space between
our organizations. And The thing
that always surprised me is
I do believe there are
a lot of talented designers
working at Microsoft. And I
remember last year I watched
the Microsoft 2000, 2020 and
19 concept video, Alice, very,
very impressed. And that kind
of thing I blocked about
it kind of just blew
me away. No offense. I
did not expect that from
Microsoft. That was like, wow,
this is so awesome because
the UI is so unique.
It has this cell shaded
translucent interface. It wasn't copying
Apple. It was not pretentious,
you know, and I was
just surprised that the, why
is this for 10 years
from now? Why not just
use this UI today? You
know, they can definitely compete
with Apple. So I, I
just thought, I feel like
Microsoft has lots of these
cool concepts, but that's all
they are. It's just concepts.
You know, you know, you
had the Microsoft surface. First
time I saw that demo
video, I thought, wow, that's
awesome. They just never came
out. You know, then, you
know, Apple touching her face,
iPhone iPad. That's, that's the
thing, right? It's the designing,
it is one thing and
shipping it and having it
still be true to the
design. Great. And that's why
Steve jobs says, you know,
our artists ship. So it's
kind of, yeah, I think
that's how I like what
Microsoft windows 3.5 IBM's was
that was really popular because
IBM was trying to Polish
our final product by the
time IBM was going to
ship. I like that. I
think that that might be
the title of the show
artists ship. I really appreciate
you taking the time to
chat with me today. Danielle.
Thank you. This has been
another episode of Hanselminutes and
we'll see you again next
week.